Alerting: Improve the docs on templating labels and annotations (#76593)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/alerting/fundamentals/annotation-label/variables-label-annotation.md

# Templating labels and annotations

You can use templates to include data from queries and expressions in labels and annotations. For example, you might want to set the severity label for an alert based on the value of the query, or use the instance label from the query in a summary annotation so you know which server is experiencing high CPU usage.

> All templates should be written in [text/template](https://pkg.go.dev/text/template). Regardless or whether you are templating a label or an annotation, you should write each template inline inside the label or annotation that you are templating. This unfortunately means you cannot share templates between labels and annotations, and instead you will need to copy templates wherever you want to use them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All templates should be written in [text/template](https://pkg.go.dev/text/template). Regardless of whether you are templating a label or an annotation, you should write each template inline inside the label or annotation that you are templating. This means you cannot share templates between labels and annotations, and instead you will need to copy templates wherever you want to use them.
```

> Each template is evaluated whenever the alert rule is evaluated, and is evaluated for every alert separately. For example, if your alert rule has a templated summary annotation, and the alert rule has 10 firing alerts, then the template will be executed 10 times, once for each alert. You should therefore avoid doing expensive computations in your templates as much as possible as high cardinality alert rules can execute a template hundreds or even thousands of times every time the alert rule is evaluated, depending on the number of time series.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each template is evaluated whenever the alert rule is evaluated, and is evaluated for every alert separately. For example, if your alert rule has a templated summary annotation, and the alert rule has 10 firing alerts, then the template will be executed 10 times, once for each alert. You should therefore avoid doing expensive computations in your templates, especially with high cardinality alert rules, as templates are executed every time the alert rule is evaluated.
```

```

To print the value of a range query you must first reduce it from a time series to an instant vector with a reduce expression. You can then print the result of the reduce expression by using its Ref ID instead. For example, if the reduce expression takes the average of A and has the Ref ID B you would write:

```
{{ index $values "B" }}
```

### Print the humanized value of a query

To print the humanized value of an instant query use the `humanize` function:

```
{{ humanize (index $values "A").Value }}
```

For example, given an instant query that returns the value 81.2345, this will print:

```
81.234
```

To print the humanized value of a range query you must first reduce it from a time series to an instant vector with a reduce expression. You can then print the result of the reduce expression by using its Ref ID instead. For example, if the reduce expression takes the average of A and has the Ref ID B you would write:

```
{{ humanize (index $values "B").Value }}
```

### Print the value of a query as a percentage

To print the value of an instant query as a percentage use the `humanizePercentage` function:

```
{{ humanizePercentage (index $values "A").Value }}
```

> This function expects the value to be a decimal number between 0 and 1. If the value is instead a decimal number between 0 and 100 you can either divide it by 100 in your query or using a math expression. If the query is a range query you must first reduce it from a time series to an instant vector with a reduce expression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function expects the value to be a decimal number between 0 and 1. If the value is instead a decimal number between 0 and 100 you can divide it by 100 in your query or using a math expression. If the query is a range query you must first reduce it from a time series to an instant vector with a reduce expression.
```

Author: I think either should be kept here no?

Author: I think either should be kept here no? Without it the sentence doesn't quite read right.
